GOOD EVENING,
EVERYONE.
>> GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE SEPTEMBER 15
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE RISE
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE
TO THE FLAG OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND TO THE
REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT STANDS
ONE NATION INDIVISIBLE WITH
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR WOULD
OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSEL OF OUR GUESTS HERE A
PERSON HERE AS NO ROXANN HERE
THAT'S FROM OUR HERE HOUSE
MEMBER DENHA.
HERE COMES A MEMBER OF THE
ABYSSINIAN MAYOR TAYLOR HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER IGHER HERE,
COUNCIL MEMBER HERE.
THAT'S NO BREAKS ABSENT NO
COLONEL MAYOR WE HAVE FOR A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCILMAN I OR
SECOND MY COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL
FAVOR POSED.
>> THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR?
NO.
>> IN THE ABSENCE
OF INTRODUCTIONS WE NOW COME TO
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAK OF COMMENT PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
>> SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
OR THE TIME CLOCK.
WE'LL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS.
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME'S
EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS MARK
SERBO.
HELLO COUNCIL MARK SQUARESVILLE
FROM WARD FIVE AND I USE MY
BANK TO GET EVERYWHERE THIS
WEEKEND I ATTENDED AT THE TWO
DEMOCRATS MEETING WHERE MAYOR
TAYLOR ROCK TO FOLLOW SUIT WHEN
HE LEFT THE MEETING HE PUT ON
HIS HIGH VIS VEST AND HOPPED ON
HIS BIKE AND I'M SO GLAD TO SEE
A CITY MAYOR CYCLING THE TALK
WHEN COMES TO OUR CITY'S GOALS
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY.
I'VE ALSO BIKED FROM THE WEST
SIDE DOWNHILL AND THEN BACK
UPHILL INTO DOWNTOWN AND THEN
DOWNHILL TO THE RIVER AND THE
BORDER BORDER TRAIL MORE TIMES
THAN I CAN COUNT.
I'M ECSTATIC ABOUT THE TREE
LINE TRAIL PROPOSAL THAT WOULD
FOLLOW THE MORE GRADUALLY
SLOPING RAIL LINES THROUGH TOWN
.
HOWEVER, THE ENORMOUS ELEVATED
BRIDGE CONNECTION AT THE NORTH
END ISN'T WELL THOUGHT OUT MORE
THAN JUST THE CRAZY COST
OF THAT SECTION OF THE TRAIL.
I'M OPPOSED THE BRIDGE BECAUSE
IT FUNDAMENTALLY REPRESENTS CAR
INFRASTRUCTURE, NOT NON
MOTORIZED TRANSPORTATION THE
BRIDGE AND MAKE PEDESTRIANS
WALK MUCH FURTHER THAN TAKING
THE AGREED CROSSING ON DEPOT
AND FROM DOT'S LIMITED
PERSPECTIVE IT WOULD PRIORITIZE
THE NEED TO VASTLY IMPROVED
SAFE TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS
BETWEEN THE RIVER AND DOWNTOWN.
PLEASE DON'T PASS THIS
RESOLUTION UNTIL WE REPLACE THE
PROPOSAL FOR AN EXPENSIVE AND
EXCLUSIONARY BRIDGE WITH A
PROPOSAL FOR AN AT GRADE
CROSSING THAT PRIORITIZE
TRANSIT AND NON MOTORIZED
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY WHEN IT
COMES TO HOUSING AFFORDABILITY.
I'M SUPPORTIVE OF BOTH THE 15
AND 16.
THE PROCESS OF BUILDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS TIME
CONSUMING AND REQUIRES COMPLEX
CAPITAL STACKS.
WE NEED TO DO EVERYTHING WE CAN
TO SUPPORT THE ASSEMBLY OF THAT
FINANCING.
I'M SO GLAD WE'RE WORKING WITH
AVALON TO ENABLE MORE INCOME
SUBSIDIZED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ON K SIXTEEN.
I'M THRILLED TO SEE THE
PROPOSAL BOTH FOR 15 WASHINGTON
AND CLINES LOT.
THESE PARCELS HAVE BEEN
SINFULLY UNDERUTILIZED FOR
DECADES AND THE PROPOSALS
BEFORE YOU TONIGHT WOULD
REMEDIATE CONTAMINATED SOIL.
BUILD OUT THE TREE LINE TRAIL
ADD THE CITY'S BUDGET AND MOST
IMPORTANTLY ADD DESPERATELY
NEEDED MIXED INCOME HOUSING
OPTIONS DURING THIS HOUSING
CRISIS AND FINALLY, I'M HERE
TONIGHT WITH MANY PEOPLE
PARTICIPATING IN NEIGHBORHOOD
WEEK WHERE WE'RE ENVISIONING
HOW ANN ARBOR LIVES AND MOVES
TOGETHER.
WE'VE GOT INTERACTIVE EVENTS,
TALKS AND GUIDED WALKS ALL THE
WAY THROUGH SATURDAY.
CHAT WITH ME AFTER THE MEETING
IF YOU'D LIKE TO LEARN MORE SO
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
.
TONIGHT YOU WILL BE ASKED TO
VOTE TO REAFFIRM COUNCIL
SUPPORT FOR THE TREE LINE
SPECIFICALLY A PORTION OF IT
BEING CALLED THE NORTH SEGMENT
FROM SEVEN TWENTY ONE NORTH
MAINE TO THE ALLEN CREEK BURM
OPENING.
NOT ONLY SHOULD YOU DEFEAT OR
TABLE THIS RESOLUTION COUNCIL
SHOULD REEXAMINE ITS SUPPORT
FOR THE ENTIRE TREE LINE
PROJECT.
IT JUST DOESN'T MAKE SENSE.
THAT'S A BIGGER SUBJECT.
IN THREE MINUTES WE'LL ALSO
FOCUS ON THE NORTH SEGMENT.
THE PROPOSAL THAT WAS
PREVIOUSLY PRESENTED TO YOU IS
A MEANDERING PATH INCLUDING
THREE BRIDGES OVER MAIN SUMMIT
AND THE POST STREETS.
THERE IS NO INDICATION HOW THE
TRAIL WILL GET TO THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE RAILROAD TRACKS AND
EVENTUALLY THE RIVER ESTIMATES
FOR CONSTRUCTING THE PROJECT
RUNS NEARLY TWENTY MILLION
DOLLARS.
BY THE TIME IT MIGHT BE BUILT
THE NUMBER WOULD PROBABLY BE
SIGNIFICANTLY MORE.
THERE'S A SIMPLE OBVIOUS IT
ALMOST COST FREE ALTERNATIVE
THE DRIVEWAY FROM SEVEN NINETY
791 NORTH MAIN STREET IS
LITERALLY LESS THAN A ONE
MINUTE WALK NORTH OF SUMMIT
STREET AND A FULL SIGNALIZED
INTERSECTION.
SUMMIT STREET ENDS ONE BLOCK
EAST OF FOURTH AVENUE AT 4TH
AVENUE DIRECTLY ACROSS FOURTH
IS AN ENTRANCE TO MILLER PARK.
A WIDE CONCRETE PATH EXTENDS
ACROSS THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
PARK TO FIFTH AVENUE.
THE SIDEWALK THERE GOES ONE
BLOCK NORTH THE DEPOT WHERE
THERE IS A SIGN CROSSWALK WALK
A FEW FEET AWAY IS A TWO WAY
STREET BICYCLE PATH.
THE DEPOT AND STREET MARKINGS
ACROSS IT DIRECTLY ACROSS DEPOT
IS THE ENTRANCE TO THE RECENTLY
BUILT TUNNEL UNDER THE RAILROAD
INTO BROADWAY WEST PARK WHERE
THE CONNECTION TO THE B TO B
TRAIL WAS ME AND MY PAPERS ALL
PASS AND CURB CUTS ALONG THAT
ROAD ARE ADA COMPLIANT?
THE FIRST SIGNS OF TONIGHT'S
RESOLUTION SAYS THE TREE LINE
AIMS TO TRANSFORM ALLEN CREEK
INTO A CORRIDOR INCLUDING A
SIGNATURE BRIDGE WHICH CONNECTS
THE HURON RIVER BACK INTO OUR
URBAN FABRIC.
OUR OWN CREEK IS NOW NOTHING
MORE THAN AN UNDERGROUND DRAIN
AS IT HAS BEEN FOR A CENTURY.
THE JORDAN RIVER HAS ALWAYS
BEEN AND REMAINS TODAY A PART
OF ENORMOUS URBAN FABRIC NO
MATTER HOW THAT MIGHT BE
DEFINED, IT DOESN'T NEED TO BE
BROUGHT BACK IN ACCESS TO THE
RIVER FROM DOWNTOWN HAS NOT
ALWAYS BEEN THE EASIEST BUT
THAT HAS BEEN RECTIFIED BY THE
TUNNEL.
WHAT EXACTLY IS A SIGNATURE
BRIDGE AND WHY DOES IN NEED A
MULTIMILLION DOLLAR ONE?
I URGE YOU TO TAKE A TOUR YOUR
OWN TOUR OF THE TREE LINE
ROUTE.
YOU WILL FIND SECTIONS CRAMMED
BETWEEN HIGH STONE RAILROAD
BERM AND ADJACENT PARKING LOTS
AND BACKS OF BUILDINGS.
IT CROSSES MANY BUSY STREETS
MUCH OF IT WILL BE NOTHING MORE
THAN ARROWS PAINTED ON DOWNTOWN
STREETS.
IT IS AN EXPENSIVE BOONDOGGLE.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
GOLDBERG
.
>> HELLO.
THANK YOU COUNCIL FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS ERIC GOLDBERG.
I LIVE IN THE AVID NEIGHBORHOOD
OF WARD FIVE.
I WENT TO SCHOOL HERE AND
WORKED FOR THE UNIVERSITY BOTH
AS AN UNDERGRADUATE AND AFTER
GRADUATING I MOVED TO
CALIFORNIA AND LIVED IN THE BAY
AREA 16 YEARS WHERE THE IMPACTS
OF CLIMATE CHANGE ARE MUCH MORE
NOTICEABLE THAN THEY ARE HERE
THOUGH WE ARE QUICKLY CATCHING
UP IN MY THOUGHTS AND I MOVED
BACK HERE IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE
DURING THE PANDEMIC PARTLY TO
BE CLOSE TO A FAMILY AND PARTLY
TO ESCAPE FREQUENT HORRIBLE AIR
QUALITY FROM WILDFIRES.
IT SEEMS WE WEREN'T ABLE TO
ESCAPE THE WILDFIRE SMOKE
COMPLETELY THOUGH IS THAT TO
BECOME A CONSTANT PROBLEM HERE
FROM CANADIAN WILDFIRES?
>> THOUSANDS OF MILES AWAY THE
MORE FREQUENT AND INTENSE
WILDFIRES THE GLOBAL CLIMATE
CHANGE PRODUCES OUR SMALL ARE
IN NO SMALL PART EXACERBATED BY
OUR ADDICTION TO BURNING FOSSIL
FUELS AND OUR OVERRELIANCE ON
DRIVING HUNDREDS OF MILES PER
WEEK BECAUSE OF THE LEGACY
OF BAD URBAN PLANNING OVER THE
LAST 40 YEARS.
AND ARBOR AND OTHER CITIES NEED
TO URGENTLY DENSIFY IMPROVE
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR NON
AUTOMOBILE MODES AND
DRAMATICALLY INCREASE ITS
HOUSING SUPPLY.
SO INCREASE THE HOUSING SUPPLY
SO WE CAN REDUCE OUR
CONTRIBUTION TO CLIMATE CHANGE.
IT IS MAKING THE PLANET ON
FAVORABLE HUMAN LIFE FOR
EXAMPLE OF DENSITY CAN DO FOR
CARBON .
THE AVERAGE NEW YORKERS ON
AVERAGE PRODUCE SIX POINT TWO
METRIC TONS OF CARBON DIOXIDE
PER YEAR WHEREAS THE NATIONAL
AVERAGE IS THIRTEEN METRIC TONS
WHICH IS TWICE TWICE OF WHAT A
NEW YORKER DOES.
AND WE ALWAYS THINK OF NEW YORK
AS BEING THIS DENSE CITY
SOMETIMES CALLED A DIRTY CITY
OR SOMETIMES A NEGATIVE LIGHT
BUT IT'S ACTUALLY MUCH MORE
SUSTAINABLE FROM A
CARBON PERSPECTIVE AND THAT
JUST SHOWS YOU WHAT AN EXTREME
VERSION OF DENSITY COULD LOOK
LIKE IN TERMS OF CARBON IMPACT.
SO I'M HERE TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE
NEGOTIATIONS AND SALE DECLINE
AND 415 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
BECAUSE PARKING LOTS AND EMPTY
PARCELS ARE BAD USES OF SPACE
AND CONTRIBUTE TO ALL THE
PROBLEMS I JUST ENUMERATED FOR
THE CLEAN LINE REPLACING FLAT
DEAD SPACE WITH MORE
APPROPRIATE DENSE INTERESTING
USES THAT ALIGN WITH OUR VALUES
AS A CITY MAKE A LOT OF SENSE
FROM BOTH A CLIMATE PERSPECTIVE
AND A LAND USE PERSPECTIVE FOR
415 WEST WASHINGTON I'M EXCITED
TO SEE SOME SORT OF DENSE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT TAKE PLACE.
IT'S A GREAT LOCATION AND OUT
OF THE ABANDONED AND CRUMBLING
FACTORY HAS BEEN REMOVED.
IT'S A PRIME LOCATION FOR
HOUSING.
THE LAST TIME KLEINERMAN WAS
BEING CONSIDERED THERE WAS A
DECENT BUT IMPERFECT PROPOSAL
FROM A SPORTS BRAND BECAUSE
OF SOME OF THE SHORTCOMINGS
OF THAT PROPOSAL.
I WAS NOT SUPER DISAPPOINTED
THAT IT DIDN'T GO FORWARD BUT I
WAS A LITTLE BIT DISAPPOINTED
BECAUSE THE HOTEL EVENTS SPACE
AND FOOD COURT SPACE WOULD IT
BE MUCH MORE USEFUL TO THE
COMMUNITY THAN A PARKING LOT IN
DOWNTOWN THAT ALREADY HAS A
RIDICULOUS AMOUNT OF PARKING?
I HOPE SOMETHING AWESOME CAN BE
DONE TO REPLACE THE CLEAN LOT.
I WOULD STILL BE PRETTY EXCITED
IF SOMETHING PRETTY GOOD WAS
DONE BECAUSE THE STATUS QUO IS
REALLY BAD.
THE SINGLE STORY CAR DAY CARE
WHICH TAKES UP THOUSANDS
OF SQUARE FEET OF PRIME
DOWNTOWN REAL ESTATE OVERALL I
THINK DOING SOMETHING IS CLEAN
AND 415 WEST WASHINGTON WOULD
BE HUGE WINS FOR THE CITY AND
THE PLANET.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHAEL
THIS.
HI, I'M MICHAEL AND THIS I'M
HERE FOR KINGS.
>> HI.
AND WE'RE IN SUPPORT OF NEW
BUSINESS CIFOR ON THE AGENDA
TONIGHT AND WE JUST WANT TO SAY
THANKS FOR EVERYONE TAKING THIS
UP AND MAKING IT A PRIORITY AND
WE HOPE THAT IT'LL CONTINUE TO
MOVE IN A POSITIVE DIRECTION
AND ALLOW TO OPEN OUR BUSINESS
NINE MONTHS AFTER THE FACT
HOPEFULLY.
AND WE'LL LOOK FORWARD TO
WORKING WITH THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR MOVING FORWARD.
>> I APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THAT I'M
JUST GETTING HI.
MY NAME IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ AND
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO ADDRESS YOU TONIGHT.
FIRST I JUST WANT TO QUICKLY
NOTE THAT IT'S A FREQUENT
PEDESTRIAN.
I AGREE WITH MR. SCARABUS
THOUGHTS ABOUT THE TREE LINE
TRAIL EXCELLENT GRADE LEVEL
CROSSINGS SHOULD BE THE
PRIORITY.
I'M SPEAKING TO YOU TONIGHT TO
SUPPORT A SIXTEEN AUTHORIZING
THE ADMINISTRATOR TO NEGOTIATE
THE SALE AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE
CLEAN SLOT AND 415 WEST
WASHINGTON AS WELL AS SEE ONE
REZONING OF TWENTY FIVE TWENTY
FIVE ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD FOR
THE PRESENT.
ALL THREE OF THESE PROPERTIES
REPRESENT GREAT OPPORTUNITIES
FOR OUR CITY.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS WITH
A SEVERE SHORTAGE OF HOUSING IN
HARBOR BUT IT'S RARE THAT WE
SEE NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN OUR
CITY THAT DOES NOT TEAR DOWN
EXISTING HOUSING IS PART
OF PREPARING THE SITE THESE ARE
THREE SUCH DEVELOPMENTS FOR 15
WEST WASHINGTON HAS BEEN A
BELATED EYESORE FOR AS LONG AS
I CAN REMEMBER EVEN WHEN IT WAS
STILL IN USE IT WAS PRETTY
THREADBARE.
I WAS SO HAPPY TO SEE IT COME
DOWN AND SOME PRELIMINARY
CLEANUP HAPPENED IN THE LOT AND
I AM LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING
BUILT-UP HOUSING.
IT'S CURRENTLY A VACANT
POLLUTED LOT AND REDEVELOPMENT
WOULD NECESSITATE SOME PRETTY
HEFTY ENVIRONMENTAL
REMEDIATION.
IT'S GREAT THAT WE CAN GET NEW
HOUSING AND CLEAN UP DECADES
OF POLLUTION.
WELL WE'LL EITHER GET ONSITE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR A
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND AS FAR AS I
UNDERSTAND WE'LL GET A SEGMENT
TO THE TREE LINE TRAIL.
I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING THIS
GREAT ADDITION TO THE EDGE
OF OUR DOWNTOWN SURFACE PARKING
COULD BE THE WORST USE OF LAND
IN AN URBAN ENVIRONMENT
ESPECIALLY THE HOUSING CRISIS.
SO I'M EXCITED THAT WE ARE
SEEING THE REDEVELOPMENT OF THE
CLIENTS TAKING ANOTHER STEP
TOWARD HAPPENING.
HUNDREDS OF HOMES FOR PEOPLE IS
AN INFINITELY BETTER USE
OF THIS SPACE THAN ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY PARKING SPACES AND
THE REVENUE FROM THE SALE WILL
HELP FUND MANY OF OUR
PRIORITIES AS A CITY I'M SO
GLAD TO SEE THIS MOVE CLOSER TO
REALITY.
FINALLY, I'VE BEEN WONDERING
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN WITH THE
DESOLATE PATCH OF GRASS AND
WEEDS BEHIND WHOLE FOODS SINCE
MY PARENTS USED TO TAKE ME
SHOPPING FOR CLOTHES AND
MERVYN'S IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE
FINALLY GOING TO SEE MUCH
NEEDED HOUSING BUILT HERE AND I
THINK THIS PLAN IS COMPLETELY
APPROPRIATE FOR THE AREA.
THE DENSITY IS GREAT AND
EXTREMELY WELCOME.
I'M GLAD TO SEE THE ADDED
PEDESTRIAN INFRASTRUCTURE IN AN
AREA THAT'S REALLY NOT GREAT
FOR PEDESTRIANS RIGHT NOW.
THANK YOU TO THE DEVELOPER FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD.
I THINK IT'LL BE A GREAT
ADDITION TO OUR COMMUNITY AGAIN
,PLEASE APPROVE A16 TONIGHT
AND PLEASE PASS ONE ALONG THE
SECOND READING ALSO I'D BE
REMISS AS A MEMBER OF YOUR
NEIGHBORS ANN ARBOR IF I DID
NOT JOIN OTHERS IN USING THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO PLUG
NEIGHBORHOOD WEEK.
I HOPE TO SEE MANY OF YOU THERE
AND I HOPE MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY IN THIS ROOM ARE
WATCHING THIS ONLINE CAN JOIN
US CHECK OUT MORE NEIGHBORS
TUDE FOR MORE INFORMATION.
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SAM HULMAN
.
HELLO MY NAME IS SAM HOHMAN.
I LIVE AT FOURTEEN ONE WROTE I
WANT TO TALK TO YOU ABOUT C ONE
THE CRESCENT MOON TURNING
OVERALL I THINK THIS IS A
FANTASTIC PRODUCT.
HOWEVER I DO HAVE A CONCERN
ABOUT THE SETBACK WHERE I DO
THINK IT SHOULD BE 50 FEET.
WE'LL KEEP IN LINE WITH ALL THE
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS ALONG THAT
SECTION OF ROAD THERE AND THE
THING THAT PARTICULARLY
MOTIVATES ME IS THAT I DO
BELIEVE THAT BOULEVARD'S IN
THAT SECTION OF ANTHROPOCENE
WOULD BE THE BEST DESIGN FOR
IT.
AM I THINKING ABOUT IT IN
PARTICULAR HAS BEEN INFORMED BY
THE PEDESTRIAN CROSSING FROM
COBBLESTONED PARK INTO ROSE
PARK ON PACARD BEING ABLE TO
CROSS A STREET ONE DIRECTION
OF TRAVEL AT A TIME IS AN
INCREDIBLE IMPROVEMENT ON
SAFETY AND I THINK THAT WOULD
BE AN IDEAL DESIGN FOR AN HOUR
PASSING THROUGH THERE.
SO WHILE I DO SUPPORT THE
PROJECT I WOULD HOPE THAT THE
CITY WOULD DO SOMETHING IF AT
ALL POSSIBLE TO MOVE THE SET
BACK FROM 15 FEET TO 50 FEET
ALONG AND OBVIOUSLY THE THING I
WANT TO TALK ABOUT WAS THE TREE
LINE TRAIL DC FOR I THINK THIS
PROJECT HAS MOSTLY BEEN REVERSE
ENGINEERED FROM A SIGNATURE
BRIDGE OVER MAIN STREET.
IT DOESN'T
MUCH SENSE YOU'RE
GOING OVER MAIN STREET.
YOU DON'T HAVE A 16 FOOT
CLEARANCE, YOU'RE GOING OVER
DEBUGGER, YOU HAVE A 16 FOOT
CLEARANCE AND THEN YOU NEED TO
GO UNDER THE RAILROAD TRACKS.
SO ANY RENDERINGS OF THIS HAS A
GIANT SWITCH BACK TO GET TO THE
RAILROAD TRACKS SO THE TREE
TRAIL IS FINE.
>> YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A BUNCH
OF LITTLE PARKS ALONG THE
RAILROAD BUT YOU'RE GOING TO BE
CREATING A NEW VERSION
OF GRAYDEN PARK ON STADIUM.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE A RAILS
WITH TRAILS SET UP LIKE WHAT WE
SEE WITH THE BALTIMORE TRAIL
BECAUSE THE RIGHT OF WAY ALONG
THE RAILROAD IS NOT WIDE.
SO WHY I THINK THE TREE LINE
TRAIL PROJECT IS FINE.
I THINK THE SIGNATURE BRIDGE IS
A FOOLISH WASTE OF MONEY SO
YEAH IT'S ABOUT IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKERS BUREAU GOOD
EVENING COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
ADMINISTRATOR DOWNEY AND THANKS
FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK
TONIGHT.
I'M PETER HOUCK FROM WARD FOR I
ALSO A MEMBER OF THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
BUT TONIGHT I'M SPEAKING ONLY
FOR MYSELF.
ADMINISTRATOR TONY, FORTUNATELY
TONIGHT'S ADMINISTRATOR REPORT
SHOWS US THAT THERE WEREN'T ANY
SERIOUS OR FATAL PEDESTRIAN
CRASHES, PEDESTRIAN OR BIKE
CRASHES IN THE MONTH OF AUGUST
AND THAT'S GOOD NEWS .
UNFORTUNATELY THOUGH, THE
AUGUST REPORT SAID THE SAME
THING BUT IT LEFT OUT A HIT AND
RUN CRASH THAT INJURED A
WHEELCHAIR USER ON JULY TWENTY
NINTH THAT WAS AT THE CORNER
OF GREEN AND DAVIS.
THIS CRASH WAS NOT REFLECTED IN
THE ADMINISTRATORS REPORT IN
AUGUST AND THE OMISSION IS NOT
MENTIONED OR CORRECTED IN THIS
MONTH'S REPORT I TOLD MY FIRST
ASK CAN YOU PLEASE ACCURATELY
CAPTURE ALL OF THE PEDESTRIAN
CRASHES THAT ARE NOW RISING TO
CRISIS LEVEL IN THE CITY AS
OF JULY TWENTY NINTH WE HAD AS
MANY SERIOUS AND FATAL
PEDESTRIAN CRASHES IN ANN ARBOR
THIS YEAR SO FAR AS IN ALL
OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AS MANY
PEDESTRIAN WERE KILLED AND HURT
SO FAR THIS YEAR AS ALL OF LAST
YEAR.
THAT'S ELEVEN PEOPLE INJURED OR
KILLED WHILE WALKING.
PLEASE CAN WE MAKE SURE THAT
THE RECORD KEEPING IS CORRECT
ON ALL OF THESE?
MY SECOND ASK CAN YOU PLEASE
LEAD OUR CITY STAFF IN MAKING
SOME TANGIBLE IMPROVEMENT?
THERE ARE IMMEDIATE CHANGES YOU
CAN MAKE AT SOME OF THEM LIKE
DEACTIVATING FLASHING YELLOW
ARROWS.
I BROUGHT TO YOU BEFORE AND
CONSIDERING HOW MANY OF THESE
CRASHES HAVE BEEN IN CROSSWALKS
WITH LIGHTS BLINKING, THE ONE I
COME WITH TODAY IS
REINVIGORATING THE FOCUS ON
DRIVER COMPLIANCE AT CROSSWALKS
AND NOBODY KNOWS HOW TO DO THIS
.
WE KNOW HOW TO IMPROVE
CROSSWALK COMPLIANCE BECAUSE WE
HELPED TO WRITE THE BOOK ON
LITERALLY WE PARTICIPATED IN A
STUDY OF ENFORCEMENT AND
ENGAGEMENT TECHNIQUES THAT
IMPROVED DRIVER COMPLIANCE BY
OVER 30 PERCENT THAT SOME
LOCATIONS SO YOU CAN RESTART
THIS EFFORT TODAY WITH A CHANGE
TO STAFFING ALLOCATION NO
INFRASTRUCTURE OR CONSTRUCTION
IS REQUIRED.
THE FINAL REPORT FROM THE STUDY
WE PARTICIPATED IN ATTACHED TO
THE JANUARY SEVEN TWENTY
NINETEEN CITY COUNCIL AGENDA
AND IT YOU'LL FIND THE DETAILS
ON THE TECHNIQUES THAT IMPROVED
DRIVER COMPLIANCE AT CROSSWALKS
BY 30 PERCENT.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE HAS BEEN A
BAD YEAR FOR PEDESTRIAN CRASHES
SO FAR WORSE THAN A DECADE BAD
EVEN PLEASE LET'S USE THE
TECHNIQUES WE'VE SHOWN TO WORK
IN ANN ARBOR.
LET'S MAKE SURE THAT TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE DOESN'T RISE FROM
WORST IN A DECADE TO WORST ON
RECORD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
SHALAKO MECHANISM'S.
YOU HEARD ME SPEAK MACINERNEY
YES.
WE CAN IN COUNCIL.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE TIME TO
ADDRESS YOU TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS ERIC SHALAKO AND I
LIVE IN THE GEORGETOWN
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WORK FOR
UNCLEANNESS.
YOU CAN SUPPORT THE RESOLUTION
TO SELL LOTS AT 415 WEST
WASHINGTON STREET AND THREE OR
NINE SUBSTORY STREET WITH THE
HELP OF LAND IN ANN ARBOR BEING
LIMITED AS IT IS, WE OUGHT TO
USE IT FOR PEOPLE AND NOT FOR
CARS.
IS THAT ACT AS PUBLICLY
SUBSIDIZED TEMPORARY STORAGE
FOR PRIVATE VEHICLES WHEN THEY
CAN BE SO MUCH MORE THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR THOSE LOTS TO
HOUSE FOLKS I WANT TO CALL OUR
WILL DO SO MUCH MORE GOOD THAN
ANY AMOUNT OF PARKING REVENUE
THEY CAN GENERATE WILL BE
HOUSING.
THEY WILL DO WONDERS TO HELP
WITH THE HOUSING CRISIS PRODUCE
OUR VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED BY
HAVING PEOPLE TO BE CLOSER TO
TRANSIT IN THEIR DAILY NEEDS
AND BRING PROVISION ZERO
NUMBERS DOWN TO ZERO.
BUT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
BUILDING OUR SPACES FOR PEOPLE
.
FIRST I'D LIKE TO JOIN IN WITH
MY FRIENDS IN THE ROOM TO
PROMOTE NEIGHBORHOOD WEEK IF
THE CHAMBERS OUR HOME IS
INTERESTED IN LEARNING ABOUT
HOW WE CAN TRULY MAKE AN HOUR
BEFORE PLEASE COME.
WE'D LOVE TO HAVE YOU AND WE
LOVE TO TALK MORE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME
AND BE A GREAT EVENING.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
GOOD EVENING.
I WANT TO REPEAT THE STATEMENTS
THAT HAVE BEEN MADE ABOUT
NEIGHBORHOOD WEEK NOT ONLY AS
NEIGHBORHOOD WE GOING TO BE A
GREAT OPPORTUNITY, A DIALOG BUT
ALSO THE AARP IS INTERESTED IN
WORKING WITH THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR TO BECOME MY AARP SENIOR
FRIENDLY CITY AND I HOPE THEY
PARTICIPATE AS WELL.
NOW I WANT TO TALK ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT'S VERY, VERY
TROUBLING AND THAT IS THE STATE
OF OUR COUNTRY AND OUR NEEDS TO
DO EVERYTHING POSSIBLE SO THAT
WE DON'T HAVE A TARGET ON OUR
BACKS AND WE NEED TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE ARE NOT CARELESSLY
SPENDING MONEY AND DRAWING
ATTENTION TO THIS COMMUNITY.
AND ONE EXAMPLE IS SPENDING TWO
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY ONE
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR A
CONSULTANT TO TELL US BASICALLY
DON'T PARK YOUR CAR ON THE
STREET WHEN THERE'S A SNOW
EMERGENCY AND THE PLOWS NEED TO
WORK.
I I'M JUST CONFUSED PUT ANYWAY
I'M SURE IT'S GOING TO PASS
TONIGHT BECAUSE WE'RE MOVING
TOWARDS A CULT LIKE CITY
COUNCIL WHICH WILL AGAIN DRAW
ATTENTION TO THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
WHAT'S MORE IMPORTANT THAN
PLOWING OUR STREETS WHERE WE
NEED TO DO THAT.
BUT EVEN MORE IMPORTANT WE
HAVEN'T HAD ANY FATALITIES AS A
RESULT NOT PLOWING OUR STREETS
OR PLOWING THEM SIDELINE ISSUES
.
ONE OF THE CRASHES THAT
HAPPENED THIS SUMMER WAS DUE TO
VEGETATION A BRANCH HANGING
OVER THE RFP.
A PEDESTRIAN WAS INJURED.
THERE WAS AN OPEN A TO FIX
TICKET.
SO WE'RE NOT PROACTIVE.
WE EXPECT OUR RESIDENTS TO TELL
US WHERE WE NEED TO DO
SOMETHING AND THEN WE DO IT AND
SOMEONE IS INJURED THAT JUST
UPSETS ME.
>> WE KNOW WHAT WE NEED TO DO
WHEN WE LOOK AT OTHER VISION
ZERO SUCCESSFUL CITIES IF YOU
SIMPLY ASK EHI THEY WILL TELL
YOU WHAT YOU NEED TO DO DAY
LIGHTING INTERSECTIONS WE DON'T
WE DENY THAT THERE IS AN ISSUE
WITH SIGHT LINES.
I DON'T KNOW WHY BUT WE HAVE
GOT TO DO BETTER.
THE OTHER THING I WANT TO
MENTION IS THE W I S D PROPOSAL
FOR A REGRESSIVE PROPERTY TAX
INCREASE IN NOVEMBER WHEN NO
ONE IS LOOKING.
SENATOR ELISSA SLOTKIN SAID
THAT THE GREATEST THREAT TO OUR
DEMOCRACY IS OUR ATTACK ON THE
MIDDLE CLASS.
INCREASES TO PROPERTY TAXES ARE
REGRESSIVE AND THEY HARM THE
MIDDLE CLASS.
THIS TAX YOU'LL BE HEARING MORE
ABOUT IT BUT I JUST WANT TO
SUMMARIZE IT.
IT'S NOT ONLY REGRESSIVE, IT'S
A DUPLICATE EFFORT WITH WHAT'S
ALREADY BEING DONE AT WCC AND
IT'S A WASTE OF MONEY.
YOU MAY BE SPENDING UP TO A
MILLION DOLLARS A GREAT MONEY
TO HOLD THIS ELECTION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MACHANS
IBSA.
FUNNY OK, I HAVE NEWS FOR MISS
GRISWOLD.
YOU DO NOT HAVE A DEMOCRACY.
YOU DON'T HAVE DEMOCRACY WHEN
YOUR SENATE AND YOUR CONGRESS
IS BOUGHT AND PAID FOR BY
ISRAEL, YOUR SENATE AND YOUR
CONGRESS IS BOUGHT AND PAID FOR
BY ISRAEL.
IT'S NOT WHAT I'M SAYING.
IT'S WHAT EVERYONE HAS ALL THE
DOCUMENTATION TO SHOW YOU.
ISRAEL OWNS YOUR AND BY OWNING
YOUR THEY ARE MURDERING PEOPLE
AND DRAGGING YOU DOWN TO THE
DEPTHS OF  WITH THEM.
>> WE HAVE BEEN COMING TO THESE
CHAMBERS SINCE 2002 ALERTING
YOU TO THE FACT THAT ISRAEL IS
A GENOCIDE MANIAC AND IT'S
USING YOUR BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
TO MASSACRE PEOPLE NOT JUST IN
GAZA, IN LEBANON, IN SYRIA, IN
YEMEN AND NOW IN IRAN.
>> MY HOME COUNTRY KEEP YOUR
MONEY AND YOUR TERRORISTS OFF
OF MY COUNTRY.
I HAVE FOUGHT HARD TO STOP YOU
FROM BOMBING GAZA, YOU
SHAMELESS BEAST SIT HERE DAY
AFTER DAY WATCHING PEOPLE
STARVE, WATCHING PEOPLE BEING
BOMBED WITH YOUR TAX DOLLARS
AND YOU REFUSE TO SAY CUT OFF
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
>> YOU SHAMEFUL BEASTS YOU
DON'T EVEN HAVE ENOUGH BRAINS
TO SEE HOW GLOBAL WARMING IS
CONNECTED TO THE GENOCIDE
OF PEOPLE IN GAZA.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO GO LISTEN TO
GRETTA TOTENBERG WHO HAS BEEN
TRYING TO BREAK THE SIEGE
OF GAZA FOR MONTHS.
LISTEN TO HER AND SHE WILL
EXPLICATE FOR YOU WHY IN ORDER
TO SAVE THE PLANET WE HAVE TO
STOP ISRAEL.
IF YOU
WANT TO SAVE THIS
PLANET, STOP ISRAEL, STOP THEM
FROM DOING THIS GENOCIDE.
STOP PAYING THEM STOP HELPING
THEM STOP COVERING UP FOR THEM.
MR. MAYOR, STOP IT.
IT'S A GENOCIDE.
EVERY DAY A HUNDRED PEOPLE GET
KILLED WITH YOU HAVE MONEY IN
GAZA ALONE EVERY DAY A HUNDRED
PEOPLE GET BUTCHERED BY YOUR
TAXES IN GAZA PEOPLE ARE
STARVING PEOPLE DYING
OF INTESTINAL DISEASES.
PEOPLE ARE DYING FROM SKIN
DISEASES.
YOU ARE SHAMEFUL, SHAMEFUL
LEADERS.
CRIMINAL LEADERS ARE DOING THIS
AND REMEMBER THIS THEY WILL BE
TAKEN TO THE HAGUE AND THEY
WILL BE JAILED.
THIS HAS HAPPENED BEFORE.
IT WILL HAPPEN AGAIN.
YOU GENOCIDAL MANIACS WILL BE
LOCKED UP, WILL BE LOCKED UP
AND THAT IS AT THE VERY LEAST
THERE IS MORE THAT CAN BE DONE
AND THERE ARE LAWS IN THE BOOK
THAT ALLOWS THEM TO DO IT.
SHAME ON THOSE PEOPLE ON SYRIA,
THE CITY OF ANOTHER CITY
COUNCIL WHO SAY NOTHING TO STOP
THIS GENOCIDE.
THANK YOU AND DON'T EVER TOUCH
ME AGAIN.
THANK YOU, SEAMUS BEAST.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LOGAN AND
CAUCUS
.
>> GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS LOGAN.
I LIVE IN WARD FIVE AND I SHARE
THE FRUSTRATIONS OF MANY OF MY
NEIGHBORS WHO HAVE BEEN
IMPACTED BY THE HURON WEST
SANITARY SEWER PROJECT.
THIS IS AN EIGHT AND A HALF
MILLION DOLLAR PROJECT AWARDED
TO MAJOR CONTRACTING H.M.
ADVISORS IS PROJECTED TO TAKE
SIX MONTHS AND WE ARE NOW
HALFWAY THROUGH MONTH EIGHTEEN
TODAY I RAISE THREE POINTS.
FIRST, THE CITY SHOULD NARROW
ITS CONSTRUCTION NOISE
ORDINANCE.
SECOND, THE CONTRACTORS FOR
THIS PROJECT HAVE PERFORMED
POORLY AND OR HAVE NOT FOLLOWED
CERTAIN CONTRACTUAL PROVISIONS
AND AND FINALLY THE WAY THAT
THIS PROJECT WAS AWARDED WAS
NOT TRANSPARENT AND WAS
CONTRARY TO STATUTE FOR THE
NOISE ORDINANCE CURRENTLY THE
CITY ALLOWS CONSTRUCTION TO
OCCUR FROM SEVEN A.M. DAY P.M.
MONDAY OR SATURDAY.
I'M VERY GRATEFUL TO COME FROM
BRIGGS WHO SAID THAT YOU WOULD
REVIEW THE ORDINANCE AND
RESPECTFULLY REQUEST IF SHE
BRINGS IT UP TO YOUR ATTENTION
YOU CONSIDER THE NEGATIVE
EFFECTS HAVING SUCH A WIDE
PERIOD OF TIME THAT
CONSTRUCTION CAN OCCUR.
THE EFFECTS ON RESIDENTS LIKE
ME.
SECOND, THE CONTRACTORS HAVE
PERFORMED POORLY HERE MY TIME
IS LIMITED BUT YOU HAVE IN YOUR
INBOX NOW WITH CITATIONS FROM
THE CONTRACT MANY EXAMPLES
OF POOR MAN MANAGEMENT DELAYS
THAT WERE BOTH FORESEEABLE AND
COMPLETELY AVOIDABLE WITH ANY
AMOUNT OF RESEARCH AND
CONTRACTUAL VIOLATIONS THAT
HARMED RESIDENTS.
I HOPE YOU LOOK AT THOSE AND
TAKE THESE INTO CONSIDERATION
PER THE CITY'S BEST VALUE
CRITERIA SECTION NINE EIGHT TO
TWO WHICH ANALYZES THE
CONTRACTORS PRIOR JOB
PERFORMANCE.
MY NEIGHBORS IN MY EXPERIENCE
SHOULD BE ACCOUNTED FOR NEXT
TIME THAT EITHER OF THESE
CONTRACTORS BIDS ARE BEFORE YOU
AGAIN.
MY LAST POINT IS HOW THE
CONTRACT WAS AWARDED
ENGINEERING ORIGINALLY
RECOMMENDED PAY MORE
CONSTRUCTION AND THEN COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA PROPOSED A LAST
MINUTE SUBSTITUTION TO MAJOR
CONTRACTING DESPITE PAYMAN
SCORING HIGHER ON BEST VALUE
FOR DENHA REASON MAJOR USES
OF UNIONIZED WORKFORCE AND THAT
THEY ARE CONFUSED BY THE
BIDDING PROCESS AND THAT
THEY'VE RESULTED IN A LOWER
SCORE.
TO BE CLEAR, I APPRECIATE YOUR
DUE DILIGENCE.
I JUST THINK YOU GOT IT WRONG
HERE.
YOU WANT TO USE UNIONIZED
WORKERS?
THAT'S GREAT.
BUT HERE WE BUILD OUT A
CONTRACTOR WHO DIDN'T BOTHER TO
FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS THEN
THEY'VE CONSISTENTLY FAILED TO
FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE
PAST 18 MONTHS LAST MINUTE
SUBSTITUTIONS FOR PROJECTS
OF THIS SIZE ARE NOT
APPROPRIATE.
THERE'S NO OPPORTUNITY FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> THERE'S NO PUBLIC OVERSIGHT
SINCE THERE'S NO SUPPORTING
DOCUMENTATION FOR THE CHANGE
AND IT CLEARLY AND PLAINLY
OPPOSES THE PUBLIC'S CLEAR
MANDATE OF WHAT VALUES ARE
IMPORTANT TO US WHEN
APPROPRIATING CITY DOLLARS,
OBJECTIVE METRICS AND HOURS
OF CITY STAFF TIME SHOULD NOT
BE SET ASIDE WITHOUT A MORE
ROBUST PROCESS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN.
WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW MANY
MORE WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY
MORE THAN SIXTY FOUR THOUSAND
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN MURDERED AND
THE GAZA STRIP BECAUSE ISRAEL
BOMBED THE HOSPITALS AND THE
PUBLIC HEALTH STRUCTURE DOWN TO
THE GROUND PRETTY QUICK.
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHETHER
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF PALESTINIANS ARE BURIED
UNDER THE RUBBLE BURIED IN
ALLEYS IN THE GAZA STRIP.
WE DON'T KNOW AND IT LOOKS LIKE
COUNCIL MEMBER JANAYA IS
GETTING READY TO LEAVE PROBABLY
BECAUSE MY GUESS BECAUSE SHE
TOOK CAMPAIGN MONEY FROM OLD
FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES IN ADDITION, MAYOR
TAYLOR WHO APPEARS ON THE
POSTER BEHIND ME PUBLICLY READ
A PRAYER FOR THE STATE
OF ISRAEL.
IN ADDITION, MAYOR PRO TEM A
DENHA HAS A PENCHANT FOR
SCREAMING ANTI-SEMITISM.
WHY DON'T WE TRY TO DRAW
ATTENTION TO THE GENOCIDE THAT
ISRAEL IS COMMITTING IN GAZA
WITH OUR TAX DOLLARS NOW HIGHER
SLANDERED US AS ANTI-SEMITIC IN
THE ELEVATOR A FEW MINUTES AGO
THAT HOLLOW BABOON KNOWS
NOTHING ABOUT JEWISH
CIVILIZATION, JEWISH HISTORY OR
ANYTHING MADE ME JUST TWO
YIDDISH WRITERS IHR YOU CAN'T
DO IT ONE YOU CAN'T DO IT.
TRY ALPEROVITZ TRY EJ SENGER
CAN YOU NAME ME ONE YIDDISH
POET YOU CAN'T TRY GLUCKSTEIN
CAN YOU NAME ONE SEPHARDIC SONG
IN LADINO TRY RVO EITHER A
BEAUTIFUL SONG CAN YOU NAME ONE
FIGURE AN EGYPTIAN MUSIC
HISTORY WHO IS JEWISH JUST ONE
YOU CAN'T TRY DAWODU HUSSEINY
WHO IS A TEACHER BUT UNCLE THE
MOST FAMOUS EGYPTIAN SINGER AND
WHO WORK FOR EGYPTIAN NATIONAL
RADIO CAN YOU NAME THE CLIFF
NOTES TO THE TALMUD?
VERY FAMOUS BOOK YOU CAN'T.
IT'S CALLED A SHUL ON THE ROOF
.
YOU KNOW NOTHING ABOUT JEWISH
CIVILIZATION.
HISTORY.
YOU KNOW NOTHING ABOUT JEWISH
YOU KNOW NOTHING ABOUT THE
HISTORY.
HOLOCAUST.
YOU KNOW NOTHING ABOUT THE
HOW MANY OF YOUR FAMILY MEMBERS
HOLOCAUST.
WERE KILLED IN THE HOLOCAUST?
HOW MANY OF YOUR FAMILY MEMBERS
MY GUESS IS NONE.
WERE KILLED IN THE HOLOCAUST?
>> AS FOR ME, PLENTY.
MY GUESS IS NONE.
THANK YOU.
>> AS FOR ME, PLENTY.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ABU IBRAHIM
ABU IBRAHIM
.
>> THEY ARE I DON'T SEE HIM ON
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEREMY
HAYLIE
.
>> GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE.
CHAIRMAN HALEY FROM PIPSY
TOWNSHIP.
I CAN SEE EVERYBODY BETTER THIS
WEEK PRETTY MUCH IN AUGUST HAS
AN ANSWER FROM MY FRIEND'S CAR
.
THEY WERE BROADSIDED THE LADY
RAN THE STOP SIGN AT 50 MILES
AN HOUR ON MY SIDE AND THAT'S
WHY I DIDN'T HAVE ANY GLASSES
AND SCRATCHED MY FACE.
I GOT A CONCUSSION SO I GOT A
BRUISE ON MY RIGHT HIP BUT I'M
JUST TRYING TO GET BETTER.
BUT WHAT I WAS GOING TO TALK
ABOUT IS POLITICAL PARTY
AFFILIATION AND HOW I FEEL
EVERYBODY THESE DAYS IS ONE OR
THE OTHER AND YOU CAN'T LIKE
THE OTHER IF YOU'RE THE OTHER
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, I GOT
DAUGHTER WHO'S TWENTY AND HER
BOYFRIEND IS GENZE AND TALKING
TO HIM AT TIMES CAN BE
INTERESTING BECAUSE I CAN SAY
SOME THINGS NOT SO THEY'LL SHUT
UP LIKE A CLAM BECAUSE THEY
JUST DON'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT
IT.
OK, FEEL THIS ONE WAY AND
THAT'S HOW IT IS AND IT'S LIKE
HOW DO YOU GET THROUGH TO
PEOPLE LIKE THAT AND THEY'RE MY
DAUGHTER.
SHE'S MY DAUGHTER AND HER
BOYFRIEND AND THEY'RE NOT ALONE
AND BECAUSE SHE SENT ME A VIDEO
OF THE RECENT KILLING
OF CHARLIE KURT THE REASON I
SAID I I'M NOT A DEMOCRAT, I'M
NOT A REPUBLICAN I DON'T KNOW
IF YOU NOTICED I GO BOTH WAYS
INDEPENDENT.
I DON'T BUT I DON'T BELONG TO
EITHER PARTY HAVEN'T FOR A
WHILE.
I JUST ONE DAY LOOKED AROUND
AND I JUST SAW MYSELF ALONE.
THEY ALL JUST WENT THERE ON
DIRECTIONS SO I JUST LEFT IN
THE MIDDLE AND IT SHOULDN'T
COME TO MEAN IS LIKE THAT TO
HAVE A CONVERSATION.
ALL HE WANTED TO DO WAS HAVE
CREATED DIALOG.
IF YOU BELIEVED IN WHAT HE SAID
OR NOT HE JUST WANTED TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION AND THAT'S ALL I
WANT TO DO IS HAVE A
CONVERSATION WITH PEOPLE IF YOU
WITH ANYTHING YOU KNOW THAT'S
HOW WE MOVE THINGS ALONG IN
THIS WORLD IS BY CREATING THAT
DIALOG.
BUT IF YOU SHUT THAT DIALOG
DOWN, WE DON'T GET ANYWHERE.
WE TAKE STEPS BACKWARDS.
WE NEED TO BE OPEN AND FREE TO
BE ABLE TO TALK TO OTHER PEOPLE
THAT WE DON'T BELIEVE IN.
YOU KNOW YOU KNOW, EVEN THE
PEOPLE THAT ARE HERE WITH GARZA
COLUMN WITH YOU.
WELL, AT LEAST HAVE A
CONVERSATION AND SEE AND HEAR
THEM OUT EITHER WAY I KNOW IT'S
HARD SOMETIMES BUT SOMEBODY'S
GOT TO MOVE THAT OLIVE BRANCH
OVER, PUT THAT HAND OUT AND GO
LET'S JUST HAVE A CONVERSATION
BECAUSE HOW ELSE ARE WE GOING
TO GET ALONG IN THIS WORLD IF
WE JUST KEEP SHUTTING PEOPLE
OUT?
WE DON'T LIKE THEIR DIVIDING US
AMONG EACH OTHER IN ORDER TO
PRETTY MUCH CONTROL US WHEN
WE'RE ALL IN SEPARATE GROUPS
AND NOT TALKING AMONG EACH
OTHER.
THINGS CAN SLIP IN THAT
NOBODY'S GOING TO LIKE AND ALL
I'M ASKING IS CAN WE JUST HAVE
A CONVERSATION WITH PEOPLE THAT
YOU DON'T AGREE WITH JUST
PEACEFULLY BECAUSE IT'S GONE
TOO FAR IN THIS WORLD IS KNOW
HE WAS A MAN HE WAS A HUSBAND
AND HAD TWO YOUNG KIDS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNSEL COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL?
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO YOU LIKE EVERYONE
THAT THIS FRIDAY FROM FIVE P.M.
DOWN ON MAIN STREET IS THE
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY'S A
TWO ZERO GREEN FAIR.
I HOPE TO SEE EVERYONE OUT.
THERE'S A LOT OF REALLY
TERRIFIC PROGRAMING PLANNED AND
IT'S GOING TO PROVE TO BE A
REALLY NICE NIGHT ON MAIN
STREET.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK NEIGHBORS
WHAT NEIGHBORS TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD INSTITUTE IN THE U
OF M URBANISM CLUB I ATTENDED
YESTERDAY'S SESSION AS PART
OF NEIGHBORHOOD WEEK.
IT WAS REALLY, REALLY WELL DONE
IF YOU HAVE A CHANCE TO CHECK
IT OUT.
WE'VE HEARD A LOT ABOUT IT
TONIGHT BUT I CAN PERSONALLY
VOUCH FOR IT AND IT WAS ON
GIVING COMMENT TO COUNCIL AND I
CAN TELL FROM TONIGHT'S
COMMENTS THAT YOUR MESSAGE GOT
THROUGH SO WAY TO GO.
AND THEN JUST REALLY QUICKLY I
WANTED TO THANK FOLKS WE'VE
REACHED OUT TO TALK ABOUT THE
CLIMATE IN PARTICULAR AND FOR
15 WEST WASHINGTON I'M OK.
I THINK SAYING THIS FOR COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S BUT WE'RE BOTH
REALLY APPRECIATIVE OF THE
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS OWNERS,
RESIDENTS, VISITORS, THE FOLKS
WHO'VE REACHED OUT TO PROVIDE
FEEDBACK AND JUST KNOW THAT WE
ARE LISTENING AND WE WILL BE
TALKING WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR ON HOW TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT IS A VOICE THAT
IS CENTERED IN THESE
CONVERSATIONS GOING FORWARD.
>> I'M REALLY EXCITED TO
SUPPORT THAT AND I THANK YOU
FOR FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S
I GUESS I'M JUST PLUG ANOTHER
EVENT THAT'S HAPPENING DOWNTOWN
ON SATURDAY.
THERE'S LIKE A PALOOZA THAT'S
HAPPENING FROM TEN TO NOON.
YOU CAN GO TO THE ANTIPODES
WEBSITE TO FIND OUT MORE
INFORMATION THAT'S PART OF THE
SAFE STREETS FOR ALL SERIES
OF EVENTS THAT ARE HAPPENING
THROUGH SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER .
IF YOU GO TO THE CITY'S
WEBSITE, THERE'S A GREAT SENSE
PAGE INCLUDING MORE EVENTS HERE
AND MANY OTHER GREAT EVENTS AT
THE CITY HOSTED ALL THROUGHOUT
THE FALL FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION, LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OR THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT ARE PRESENTED
TO CITY COUNCIL ON SEPTEMBER
TWO TWENTY TWENTY FIVE TO THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT PARTY
STEVE STEVEN FISHER TO THE
PUBLIC MARKET ADVISORY
COMMISSION WILL BRINKERHOFF
MARCUS FLORES TO THE ANNENBERG
PUBLIC ART COMMISSION, JENNA
CARTER AND JOHN JORDAN TO THE
EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MARK FOSTER I
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION WELL FAVOR POST
THEY'RE APPROVED AND I WOULD
LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATION FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE LOCAL TO
THE FINANCE AUTHORITY.
MICHAEL COLE.
>> WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CONSENT
AGENDA BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG.
CAN MY EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
MCCONNELL DISCUSSION THE
CONSENT AGENDA PLEASE WILL HAVE
REMOVED A TWO AND A TEN FROM
THE CONSENT PULLDOWNS FROM THE
CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS
FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION
THE CONSENT AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF KAITUMA TEN PCI
SORRY AND SIXTEEN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALL IN FOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED WITH TEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ARE
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO THE
SIX C11 IS ALL C A AND K
FIFTEEN I AM REMINDED.
>> THANK YOU.
YES OF COURSE.
>> SEE TO RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
A PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
AGREEMENT AMERICAN EAGLE CO INC
DBE A Q M FOR MEDIA AND
CREATIVE SERVICES IN SUPPORT
OF THE THESE UPDATED ON STREETS
NO PARKING BAN MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HACKMAN'S MY COUNCILMAN
OR CARNEL DISCUSSION OF THE TWO
AS FOLKS KNOW SOMETIMES WE
PEOPLE AT COUNCIL WHEN THEY
HAVE A FINANCIAL INTEREST OR
POTENTIAL FINANCIAL INTEREST DO
REQUEST THE LEAVE TO BE LEAVE
TO BE RECUSED FROM THE VOTE.
QM IS A CLIENT OF THE FOUR
WHICH I DO WORK AND SO I WOULD
REQUEST COUNCILS IN STEPPING
DOWN.
THIS REALLY GOES WITH RESPECT
TO SAY TO NCEA TAMBRA.
>> I GUESS WE'LL DEAL WITH THE
TIME WHEN THE TIME COMES WE
HAVE A MOTION MUBARAK DENHA AND
MY DISH DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> I'M ACCUSING COUNCILMAN
ALL
RIGHT.
IS THERE ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF TO SEEING ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
ANY OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED.
LET'S SEE A TEN C10 RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT CONTRACT WITH P P X
CONSTRUCTION INC DOING BUSINESS
AS CAN PHENIX CAN CONTRACTORS
INC ESTABLISH THE PROJECT
BUDGET AND APPROPRIATE FUNDS
FOR THE RENOVATION OF THE
ELECTIONS CENTER FACILITY MAY
HAVE MOTION PLEASE.
COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL SECONDED
BY A COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS DO WE
HAVE A MOTION TO RECUSE THE
MAYOR FROM THIS AS WELL?
COUNCIL MEMBER IA SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK ANY
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR THE RECUSAL
IS APPROVED.
IS THERE ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE 810 SEEING NONE OF THOSE
IN FAVOR AND OPPOSE IT IS
APPROVED WITH NINE COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE SATISFYING.
>> THANK YOU A16 RESOLUTION TO
AUTHORIZE THE ADMINISTRATORS TO
NEGOTIATE THE SALE AND
DEVELOPMENT OF 415 WEST
WASHINGTON STREET N THREE OR
NINE S ASHLEY STREET MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN QUENELLE DISCUSSION
PIECE OF A SIXTEEN COUNCIL
MEMBER BREAKS THANK YOU.
>> I GUESS I COULD HAVE JUST
SAID MY COMMENTS DURING
PREVIOUS TIME BUT THIS IS A
SIZABLE ENOUGH RESOLUTION I
THOUGHT IT WAS WORTH PULLING.
>> I JUST WANTED TO SHARE THAT
I AM HAPPY TO SUPPORT THE
ADMINISTRATORS RECOMMENDATIONS
ABOUT HOW TO PROCEED WITH ON
BOTH OF THESE SITES.
I JUST WANT TO SPEAK A LITTLE
BIT TO BOTH OF THE PROJECTS 415
WEST WASHINGTON AS WE KNOW IS A
COMPLEX SITE AND WE NEED A
PARTNER EXPERIENCED AND
PREPARED TO ADDRESS THOSE
COMPLEXITIES WHILE DELIVERING
ON OUR STATED GOALS FOR THE
SITE.
I WAS PLEASED TO SEE THAT BASE
BUILD I THINK THAT'S HOW YOU
PRONOUNCE IT IS LEAN INTO THIS
CHALLENGE IN THEIR PROPOSAL
THEY STATED A DESIRE TO PURSUE
A HIGH PERFORMANCE AWARD WORTHY
DESIGN THAT HONORS ANOTHER'S
CHARACTER AND ITS SETTING
WITHIN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THE PROPOSAL RECOMMENDED
BEGINNING WITH AN INITIAL PHASE
TO DELIVER IMMEDIATE VISIBLE
BENEFITS BROWNFIELD CLEAN UP
TREE TRAIL CONNECTION AND
MISSING MIDDLE INSPIRED HOUSING
APPROACH FEATURING HIGH QUALITY
AFFORDABLE UNITS ALONG SIDE A
DIVERSE TYPOLOGIES AND
IMPORTANTLY THEY ARTICULATED A
COMMITMENT TO FOSTERING
MEANINGFUL PARTNERSHIPS WITH
LOCAL STAKEHOLDER PUBLIC REALM
IMPROVEMENTS AND TRANSPARENT
ENGAGEMENT PROCESSES THAT
RESPECT AND REINFORCE THE
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT AND RESIDENTIAL NEEDS.
SO EXCITED TO SUPPORT THAT WITH
REGARDS TO THREE OR NINE S
ASHLEY, OUR COMMUNITY HAS BEEN
DEBATING THE FATE OF THIS
PARCEL THAT WE REFER TO AS A
CLEAN SLATE SINCE AT LEAST THE
LATE 1980S WHILE THE CLIENTS
DEPARTMENT STORE CLOSED IN 1994
THE YEAR I GRADUATED FROM HIGH
SCHOOL.
WHILE I DON'T LOOK THE SAME,
THIS LOT DOES SO WE ARE WE ARE
LUCKY TO ONCE AGAIN HAVE A
HEALTHY BUSINESS COMMUNITY ON
MAIN STREET BUT WE CANNOT
CONTINUE TO PRESERVE THE SITE
MERELY FOR USE AS PARKING.
IT'S TIME TO LISTEN TO THE
PEOPLE DECADES LONG CRY FOR
HOUSING ON THE SITE.
MORE DOWNTOWN RESIDENTS MEAN
MORE PEOPLE SHOPPING AND
FREQUENTLY FREQUENTING LOCAL
BUSINESSES AND CONTRIBUTING TO
OUR CITY'S HEALTHY, VIBRANT
FUTURE.
HEINZ WILL BRING OUR LOCAL AND
NATIONAL EXPERIENCE AND
WILLINGNESS TO ENGAGE WITH THE
CITY TO MEET OUR HOUSING
SUSTAINABILITY TRANSPORTATION
AND PLACEMAKING
GOALS INCLUDING
OUTDOOR GREENSPACE AND WORKING
WITH A LOCAL BROKER TO FIND
RETAIL TENANTS.
GIVEN THE PROMINENCE OF THIS
PARCEL, I DO THINK THAT BEFORE
THAT IT IS INCUMBENT UPON US TO
TO TAKE THE TIME AND THE EFFORT
TO FOCUS ON FURTHER
ARTICULATING THOSE COMMITMENTS
TO CREATE A MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT IN OUR DOWNTOWN
THAT'S NOT JUST INFILL BUT
TRULY A DELIGHTFUL NEW ADDITION
TO OUR DOWNTOWN WE CAN BE PROUD
OF FOR DECADES TO COME.
BUT I YOU HAVE FULL CONFIDENCE
THAT SINCE PLACEMAKING AS
ARTICULATED AS ONE OF OUR TOP
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GOALS THAT
OUR STAFF IS LASER FOCUSED ON
THIS ISSUE.
SO AGAIN, JUST HAPPY TO TO
SUPPORT BOTH OF THESE
AGREEMENTS AND SEE THESE
NEGOTIATIONS ADVANCE AND THANK
YOU TO ADMINISTRATOR DAHANEH
AND OUR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
TEAM FOR FOR GETTING US TO THIS
POINT FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL DISH.
>> THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS FOR SHARING YOUR
EXCITEMENT AND YOUR
ASTONISHINGLY LATE DATE
OF GRADUATING FROM.
SO I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO SHARE
SOME YASIM ABOUT 415 WEST
WASHINGTON.
I AM A FREQUENT VISITOR TO THE
YMCA AND FOR YEARS NOW I HAVE
WONDERED WHAT WAS WITH THE
REALLY UGLY GRAY BUILDING AND
MANY WHY MEMBERS YOU WONDER
THAT AND WHEN IT WAS TORN DOWN
WHICH WAS DONE TO FACILITATE
THE PROCESS OF THIS SALE,
PEOPLE WERE AMAZED BY SIMPLY
THE ABSENCE OF THE FIELD.
IT'S AN IMPROVEMENT.
>> SO IMAGINE WHAT THIS SITE
WILL BE LIKE WHEN IS FILLED
WITH THE THINGS THAT TWO
EXTRAORDINARY YEARS OF PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT ASKED US TO PUT IN
THE PUDI THAT WE APPROVED IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE THAT WILL
INCLUDE HOUSING REMEDIATION
OF THE SITE.
FIFTEEN PERCENT OF THE TOTAL
NUMBER OF HOMES OR FIFTEEN
WHICHEVER IS HIGHER AFFORDABLE
DEDICATED TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
OR PAYMENT IN LIEU THE EASTERN
PORTION OF THE SITE WILL
REALIZE A SEGMENT OF THE TREE
LINE TRAIL AND YOU KNOW THAT'S
AMAZING.
ANY CONSTRUCTION IN THE FLOOD
FRINGE PORTION THE SITE WILL BE
ELEVATED TO A LEVEL THAT IS ONE
FOOT ABOVE THE ONE 500 CHANCE
OF FLOODING.
THAT IS AN EXTREMELY STRINGENT
STANDARD.
IT IS ONE THAT THIS COUNCIL
ADOPTED SOME WELL MOST OF THE
PEOPLE OF THIS COUNCIL ADOPTED
SOME YEARS AGO WHEN WE ADOPTED
OUR FLOOD PLAIN OVER THE
ORDINANCE.
THAT ORDINANCE IS STRICT.
IT IS STRONG AND FINALLY THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
HAS SEEN THIS PROPOSAL
REPEATEDLY THROUGHOUT THE
PROCESS OF PLANNING FOR
DEVELOPMENT OF THIS SITE.
THEY ARE NOT REQUIRED TO SEE IT
THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS
OF DEVELOPING A SITE BUT THEY
WERE AND EARLY ENGAGEMENT WAS
IMPORTANT TO STAFF BECAUSE THEY
WANTED TO ESTABLISH A RECORD
OF INPUT FROM FLEECY AND THEY
WANTED OUR POTENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT PARTNER TO
UNDERSTAND AND THE FDIC'S
DESIRED OUTCOMES AND THAT
PARTNER DOES SO THAT PARTNER IS
GOING TO FILL EVERY REQUIREMENT
PLUS RESPECT MID CENTURY MODERN
DESIGN STANDARDS PLUS SERVE UP
A GENEROUS PORTION
OF SUSTAINABILITY.
I AM REALLY PLEASED WITH THE
WAY THE BROKER PROCESS ALLOWED
THIS TO COME TO US AND FURTHER
DISCUSSION
FROM MY PART.
I'M I'M EXCITED ABOUT THE
PROSPECT OF THESE TWO LONG
FALLOW SITES BEING DEVELOPED
FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE LARGER
COMMUNITY.
WE ALL KNOW THAT FOURTH TEAM
WEST WASHINGTON HAS BEEN A
BLIGHT.
THIS PROJECT WILL ENABLE IT TO
BE CLEANED AND WILL ENABLE
RESIDENTS TO LIVE AT A LOCATION
WHERE THEY WILL BE WOVEN INTO
WOVEN INTO THAT INTERSECTION
BETWEEN THE DOWNTOWN AND THE
THE OLD WEST SIDE AT 415 PART
OF ME AT THE SITE OF COURSE
THIS IS A SURFACE PARKING LOT.
THERE IS A GREAT DEAL PARKING
DOWNTOWN.
THERE'S A INCREASED AMOUNT
OF OF ACCESSIBLE PARKING
DOWNTOWN FOR SENIORS, FOR
EXAMPLE, WHO HAVE EXPRESSED
CONCERN ABOUT NOT BEING PERHAPS
COMFORTABLE IN PARKING
STRUCTURES.
WE DO HAVE AN INCREASED AMOUNT
OF ACCESSIBLE PARKING IN THE
DOWNTOWN THROUGHOUT THE
DOWNTOWN AND THAT'S I THINK AN
IMPORTANT BUT AN IMPORTANT
INNOVATION AND A STEP FORWARD
THAT WE'VE TAKEN AS A MUNICIPAL
ORGANIZATION HERE WE HAVE A
PARCEL THAT CAN ACCOMMODATE A
GREAT DEAL.
IT CAN ACCOMMODATE HUNDREDS
OF NEW RESIDENTS.
IT CAN ACCOMMODATE BUSINESSES
AND AN OPEN SPACE AND THE LIKE.
AND I AM EXCITED ABOUT THE
PROSPECT WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO DO GREAT THINGS HERE.
I'M GRATEFUL FOR THE WORK
PERFORMED BY MY STAFF MR. TONY,
MR. GIANT ETC. TO GET US HERE
AND LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING
WHAT'S NEXT FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED AND THE ABSENCE
OF PUBLIC HEARING WILL NOW COME
TO OUR MINUTES OF EMOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE REGULAR
MEETING MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER TO
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SELECTED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ON
FABER OPPOSED THE MINUTES ARE
APPROVED SEE ONE ORDINANCE TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF POINT FOUR ONE
EIGHT ACRES FROM OFFICE
DISTRICT TO OUR FOUR E
MULTIFAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
TO CRESCENT REZONING TO FIVE TO
FIVE ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER ARE SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER HECKMANN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE DOWN
FROM BRITISH.
>> I DON'T WANT TO SAY TOO MUCH
ABOUT THIS BECAUSE THIS IS
FIRST READING AND WE WILL HAVE
PROBABLY MORE TO SAY AFTER THE
PUBLIC HEARING AT SECOND
READING.
BUT I DO WANT TO SAY THAT THIS
WILL BE AN INFORMAL PROJECT
OF FIVE STORIES THAT WILL BRING
262 RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
IT'S A COMBINATION OF 38
STUDIOS 164 ONE BEDROOMS, 55
TWO BEDROOMS AND FIVE THREE
BEDROOMS.
THAT'S A GREAT MIX OF HOUSING
AND THAT'S A GREAT TYPOLOGY
OF HOUSING FOR THAT AREA.
THIS PROJECT IS ADJACENT TO
CRANBROOK VILLAGE AND CRANBERG
VILLAGE SHOPPING CENTER WILL BE
CALLED A CRESCENT AND IT'S
CREATING APARTMENTS IN A
CONTEXT WHERE PARKS AND
SHOPPING AND RESTAURANTS AND
OTHER RETAIL SERVICES ARE
WALKABLE.
PLUS THERE ARE BUSSES AND THERE
WILL ALSO TRAFFIC HAS BEEN
FLAGGED AS A CONCERN IN THIS
AREA AND FOR THIS PROJECT AND
AS I UNDERSTAND IT, THERE IS
CURRENTLY A PLAN TO INSTALL TWO
NEW YORK LIGHT CROSSWELL ONE
ACROSS OAK BROOK DRIVE, THE
OTHER CROSS AND OBVIOUSLY
SALEEN ROAD.
BUT THE PETITIONER HAS EXPECTED
OR HAS EXPRESSED WILLINGNESS TO
PAY FOR A NEW TRAFFIC LIGHT IF
THE CITY FINDS THAT THAT IS
WARRANTED AND I BELIEVE I MEAN
THAT'S IN MY NOTES I BELIEVE
THAT IS TRUE.
SO YEAH.
SO IF THERE I THINK THAT MAYBE
BETWEEN NOW AND THEN MAYBE SOME
MORE HELP ABOUT HOW WE MIGHT
MOVE FORWARD WITH SOMETHING A
LITTLE BIT MORE ROBUST THERE
AND ON WHAT SORT OF TIMELINE
WOULD BE GREAT TO KNOW AMERICAN
.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU COUNCIL
MEMBER JOSH FOR POINTING THAT
OUT.
THE MAJORITY OF THE CONCERNS
THAT I'VE HEARD RAISED ABOUT
THIS LOCATION HAVE TO DO WITH
SAFETY FOR PEDESTRIANS ALONG
WHAT'S A VERY FAST MOVING ROAD
AND ARBER SALEEN AND THERE'S A
HILL RIGHT THERE SO IT MAKES
VISIBILITY DIFFICULT AND I READ
SOME OF THE BACKGROUND
MATERIALS AND STREAM THEY'RE
NOT INCLUDED WITH WITH THIS
FIRST READING BECAUSE THEY GO
AT THE SITE PLAN AT SECOND
READING.
BUT I WOULD IF IF STASS
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER A QUESTION
I WOULD LIKE TO BETTER
UNDERSTAND THE STATUS OF THE
TRAFFIC SIGNAL BECAUSE I
BELIEVE IN THE RESPONSE MUMOLO
THAT WE GOT IT SAID THAT THE
DEVELOPER WOULD NEED TO CONDUCT
ANOTHER STUDY TO DO THAT
TRAFFIC AND THEY HAVE NOT
INDICATED A WILLINGNESS TO DO
SO SO FAR.
SO I WOULD APPRECIATE SOME
CLARITY FROM STAFF
.
ALL RIGHT.
EVERYONE.
SO THE STATUS OF THE TRAFFIC
LIGHT THERE WERE SOME INTERNAL
DISCUSSIONS BEFORE THE SITE
PLAN WAS SENT A PLANNING
COMMISSION ABOUT A TRAFFIC
LIGHT WAS MORE APPROPRIATE FOR
THE SITE OR IF CROSSWALKS WERE
MORE APPROPRIATE.
TRANSPORTATION STAFF DECIDED
THAT THEY NEEDED MORE
INFORMATION AND MORE ANALYSIS
TO PUT IN A TRAFFIC SIGNAL IN
THIS AREA.
SO IT WAS DECIDED THAT THE SITE
PLANNED TO GO TO PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT IT WOULD BE
CROSSWALKS.
I BELIEVE THE DEVELOPER DID
HAVE CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ABOUT A
POTENTIAL TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
STAFF DID FOLLOW WITH THEM
AFTER PLANNING COMMISSION AND
BEFORE THIS FIRST READING WITH
SCHEDULED AND THEY HAVEN'T
COMMITTED TO ANYTHING FURTHER
POTENTIAL STUDIES FOR THE
FUTURE TRAFFIC LIGHT POTENTIAL
FUTURE TRAFFIC LIGHT AT THIS
TIME.
SO FOR RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST THE
COSSACKS AND WE HAVE NO FURTHER
INFORMATION ABOUT A TRAFFIC
LIGHT FROM THE DEVELOPER.
YEAH, I MEAN I DON'T.
LET ME JUST PREFACE THIS WITH I
THINK THIS SITE IS RIPE FOR
DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO
HOUSING HERE.
IT'S BEEN SITTING VACANT I
UNDERSTAND SINCE THE 1940S AT
THE SAME TIME I AM CONCERNED
ABOUT SAFETY FOR NON MOTORIZED
TRANSIT IN THIS AREA
.
MY UNDERSTANDING FROM THE STAFF
REPORT WITH THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION STUDY WAS THAT
THERE WERE SERIOUS CONCERNS.
I BELIEVE A LOT OF THOSE HAVE
BEEN RESOLVED.
AGAIN, I THINK WE DON'T HAVE
ALL THE INFORMATION HERE FOR
THIS FIRST READING.
DOES IT COME TO THE SITE PLAN?
BUT I'LL BE LOOKING AT THAT
CAREFULLY.
I THINK COMPLIANCE AS WAS
BROUGHT UP IN PUBLIC COMMENT AT
SOME OF THESE SIGNALIZED SORRY
I ALWAYS FORGET THEY'RE CALLED
RFP CROSSINGS ARE SPOTTY AT
BEST.
I'VE SEEN PEOPLE BLOW RIGHT
THROUGH THEM.
WE HAVE ISSUES BECAUSE THE
NUMBER OF LANES I THINK WHERE
ONE LANE WILL STOP AND THE
OTHER DOESN'T SEE AND THEY
CARRY ON THAT'S A PROBLEM FOR
PEOPLE CROSSING SOMEONE I KNOW
WAS HIT ON A SCOOTER THERE
RECENTLY.
SO THAT'S A CONCERN FOR ME.
I DO THINK IN TERMS THE TRAFFIC
IMPACT THAT A LOT OF RESIDENTS
ARE RAISING CONCERN.
I BELIEVE THAT THE YOU KNOW,
THE TRAFFIC STUDIES THAT WERE
DONE IN TERMS AUTOMOBILE
TRAFFIC THAT'S GOING TO BE
CREATED BY THIS DEVELOPMENT IS
PRETTY LOW, MUCH LOWER I WOULD
EXPECT THAN THE WHOLE FOODS
CREATES IN A GIVEN DAY OR IN
OFFICE DEVELOPMENT WOULD CREATE
HERE.
SO AGAIN, I'LL JUST BE LOOKING
AT THIS CAREFULLY.
I THINK WHEN IT COMES BACK FOR
A SECOND READING.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
>> OH YES.
MARIA, I'M SORRY.
I GUESS I'M STILL UNCLEAR AS TO
HOW WE IF WE COULD HAVE STAFF
ONCE AGAIN JUST CLARIFY HOW CAN
WE GET TO AN ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC
STUDY OR A STUDY LOOKING AT THE
NON MOTORIZED TRANSIT AND
WHETHER A LIGHT IS NEEDED?
I MEAN WHAT I HEARD WAS THERE'S
NO THERE'S NOTHING ELSE PLANNED
AT THIS TIME BUT IT SEEMS LIKE
THE CONCERNS REMAIN.
>> YEAH.
SO AT THIS POINT TRANSPORTATION
STAFF HAS DETERMINED THAT THE
PROPOSED SITE PLAN DOES MEET
ALL OF THEIR STANDARDS FOR
MULTIMODAL TRANSIT AND WE CAN
HAVE TRANSPORTATION STOP
PROVIDE SOME MORE INFORMATION
FOR WHEN THE PLAN COMES BEFORE
YOU NEXT MONTH.
AS OF RIGHT NOW IT WOULD BE ON
THE DEVELOPER TO GET AN
ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC STUDY TO
MOVE THAT FORWARD AND WE DON'T
HAVE ANY KIND COMMITMENT ON
THAT RIGHT NOW.
SO RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST ACROSS
SITES ON THE SITE PLAN AND WE
WOULD NEED DEVELOPER TO TO MOVE
TRAFFIC SIGNAL FORWARD.
AND SO WHAT I WAS TRYING TO GET
TO WAS WILL THERE BE ANY MORE
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE DEVELOPER
ABOUT THAT?
>> YEAH, WE CAN HAVE AND
PROVIDE MORE INFORMATION FOR
YOU WHEN THIS COMES UP WITH THE
SITE PLAN.
>> YES, I WOULD DEFINITELY
APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> WELL, IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED C TO ORGANIZE TO
AMEND THE ZONING MAP OF CHAPTER
55 UNIFIED BUILDING CODE POINT
ONE ONE ACRES FROM PARK TO SEE
ONE LOCAL COMMERCIAL ONE ZERO
ZERO WOODLAND AVENUE REZONING
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN DITCH SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF C TO COUNT THE
BRITISH.
>> I'VE BEEN WAITING ALL
EVENING FOR THIS SO BACK IN THE
PREVIOUS CENTURY THAT'S WHAT I
WANTED TO SAY.
PARKING WAS USED AS A BUFFER
BETWEEN DIFFERENT LAND USES
THAT'S OUTMODED CARS ARE NOT AN
ATTRACTIVE OR EFFECTIVE BUFFER
.
SO ESSENTIALLY WHAT WE HAVE
HERE IS A REQUEST TO REZONE THE
BUFFER PARKING TO COMMERCIAL
AND TO WAIVE THE AREA PLAN
REQUIREMENT BECAUSE THERE'S NO
NEW DEVELOPMENT FORESEEN HERE.
THIS PARCEL IS ALREADY
SURROUNDED BY COMMERCIAL SO
THERE'S NO NEED FOR A BUFFER
AND SINCE THERE'S NO
DEVELOPMENT PLANNED, THERE'S NO
NEED FOR AN AREA STUDY AND THE
REZONING WILL SUPPORT A MORE
FUNCTIONAL AND ESTHETICALLY
PLEASING SERVICE AREA AT
ARTISTS ON PACARD THEY HAVE
WORKED WITH THEIR NEIGHBORING
BUSINESS ON THE ZEN BUDDHIST
SOCIETY AND EVERYTHING THEY'RE
ASKING FOR IS ALIGNED WITH OUR
TWENTY MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD
CONCEPT SUPPORTS LOCAL FARMS
AND PRODUCERS WHO GET AN
AMAZING RETURN ON THEIR GOODS
WHEN THEY SEND OUR GUESTS.
>> IT'S AN 80 PERCENT PROFIT
SHARE AND IT SUPPORTS CONTINUED
OPERATION BY ARTISTS IN THEIR
CURRENT LOCATIONS.
SO LET'S JUST MODERNIZE GET
INTO THE 21ST CENTURY AND DO
AWAY WITH PARKING AS A BUFFER.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR
OR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED C
THREE AUDIENCE AMEND CHAPTER
FOURTEEN PURCHASING CONTRACTING
SELLING PROCEDURE TITLE ONE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY THEN
ARBER MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
IOR SECOND BY COUNCILMAN
BALLOCK DISCUSSION OF C THREE
COUNCILOR MALIK I WOULD LIKE TO
OFFER AN AMENDMENT TO THIS ITEM
SO I MOVE TO AMEND THE MAIN
MOTION WITH AN AMENDMENT THAT
WILL BE CIRCULATED BY THE
CITY
CATHERINE ALLEY PERHAPS
INTRODUCE
OH WE'LL INTRODUCE IT
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC SO
THEY KNOW WHAT IT IS.
>> YES.
SO THIS PROPOSAL AMENDMENT
TONIGHT WOULD TARGET JUST THE
FUTURE AUTOMATIC CHANGES OF THE
PURCHASING AND DISPOSAL
THRESHOLD BY REMOVING THAT
ELEMENT COMPLETELY BUT LEAVES
THE REMAINING ELEMENTS OF THE
AGENDA ITEM UNTOUCHED.
AND SO FOR FOLKS AT HOME IT'S
TWO ONE THREE ONE THREE WITH
WITH THE SUBSTITUTIVE CITY
COUNCIL MAY YES.
THERE'S YES, I BELIEVE THE
MAJORITY OF THE STATES ARE AT
THAT PART.
EXCELLENT.
COUNCILOR DENHA, YOU SECONDED
MALIK YOU STILL THE FLOOR.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
MAYOR, THIS IS MY FIRST EVER
AMENDMENT SO PLEASE BE GENTLE
COLLEAGUES.
SO THE AGENDA ITEM TONIGHT HAS
BY MY COUNT THREE MAIN CHANGES
TO IT OVERALL.
FIRST A ONE TIME INCREASE IN
THE THRESHOLD OF PURCHASES
OF GOODS AND SERVICES REQUIRING
COUNCIL APPROVAL FROM SEVENTY
FIVE THOUSAND TO NINETY
THOUSAND SECOND THE FUTURE
AUTOMATIC INCREASE OF THAT
THRESHOLD BASED ON CPI EVERY
TWO YEARS WITHOUT THE EXPLICIT
APPROVAL BY COUNCIL.
AND LASTLY A CHANGE IN BEST
VALUE PROCUREMENT PRACTICES FOR
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.
>> THIS PROPOSED AMENDMENTS, AS
I SAID, ONLY TARGETS THE FUTURE
AUTOMATIC CHANGES OF THE
THRESHOLD BY REMOVING THAT
ELEMENT COMPLETELY I BELIEVE
HAVING A THRESHOLD ABOVE WHICH
COUNCIL MUST APPROVE PURCHASES
AND DISPOSAL IS AN IMPORTANT
BALANCE BETWEEN EFFICIENCY AND
TRANSPARENCY BELOW THE
THRESHOLD STAFF HAVE THE
DISCRETION TO MAKE PURCHASES
WITHIN REASON.
COUNCIL, AFTER ALL, DOES NOT
HAVE TO APPROVE THE PURCHASE
OF EVERY PEN AND OF EVERY
PENCIL MAKING FOR A
STRAIGHTFORWARD AND STREAMLINED
PROCUREMENT PROCESS.
HOWEVER, ABOVE THAT THRESHOLD
CITY DEPARTMENTS MUST PUBLICLY
JUSTIFY THEIR PURCHASES AND
PROVIDE A MEMO FOR COUNCIL AND
PUBLIC CONSIDERATION.
I BELIEVE THIS IS AN IMPORTANT
EXERCISE IN TRANSPARENCY EVEN
IF LOWER AMOUNT PURCHASES THAT
ARE STILL ABOVE THE THRESHOLD
LAND ON THE CONSENT AGENDA AND
DO NOT GET PULLED FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION AT THE COUNCIL
TABLE.
I KNOW THESE AGENDA ITEMS
BEFORE COUNCIL BENEFIT TO
COUNCIL CITY STAFF AND THE
PUBLIC AT LARGE.
WITH THAT I OFFER THIS
AMENDMENT TONIGHT TO REMOVE
FUTURE AUTOMATIC INCREASES TO
THE VARIOUS THRESHOLDS WITHOUT
THE EXPLICIT AFFIRMATIVE VOTE
BY COUNCIL.
IF I'M BEING HONEST I AM ALSO A
BIT CAUTIOUS ABOUT INCREASING
THE THRESHOLD TONIGHT FROM
SEVENTY FIVE THOUSAND TO NINETY
THOUSAND BUT I UNDERSTAND SOME
CHANGE TO THIS THRESHOLD IS
ACCEPTABLE BECAUSE WE HAVE A
WONDERFULLY CAPABLE AND
PROFESSIONAL CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND CITY STAFF THAT ARE BEING
SAID.
I THINK MORE TRANSACTIONS, NOT
FEWER SHOULD ULTIMATELY FALL
UNDER COUNCIL AND PUBLIC
DISCRETION.
I HOPE YOU CONSIDER THIS
AMENDMENT TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT CONSERVATIVE I AM
HESITANT TO SUPPORT THE
AMENDMENT.
I AM ALL FOR TRANSPARENCY BUT
WHAT THE AMENDMENT REMOVES IS A
PROVISION FOR INFLATIONARY
ADJUSTMENTS BASED ON THE
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX.
SO IF WE IF WE IF WE PASS THIS
THERE'S AN AUTOMATIC JUST
ADJUST UPWARD FOR INFLATION IF
WE DON'T PASS IT THERE ARE A
SERIES OF UNAPPROVED PRICE CUTS
OVER TIME WHICH I DON'T THINK
ARE EFFICIENT BUT I'M OPEN TO
DELIBERATION BODY AS A COUNCIL
RATHER.
THANK YOU.
SO IN TALKING WITH FOX ABOUT
THIS TODAY AND WITH STAFF WITH
THE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE, MY
UNDERSTANDING IS WELL FIRST
OF ALL THE LANGUAGE OF THE OR
OF THE PROPOSED CHANGE TO THE
ORDINANCE ACTUALLY DOESN'T PIN
IT TO THE CPI.
IT DOESN'T SAY
WHAT THE METHOD
WOULD BE TO DETERMINE
INFLATION.
>> IT WAS NOTED IN THE IN THE
ACCOMPANYING MEMO BUT NOT IN
THE ORDINANCE ITSELF.
AND SO THAT WAS SOMETHING I
FLAGGED AS HOW HOW ARE WE GOING
TO OR HOW IS STAFF GOING TO
DETERMINE WHAT THAT RATE YOU
KNOW, WHAT THE INCREASE SHOULD
BE AND HOW WHAT INTERVALS AND
THERE WASN'T CLEAR THERE WAS
NOT A CLEAR UM, DECISION ON THE
PART OF STAFF TO WANT AS I
UNDERSTAND TO WANT TO PUT THAT
IN THE ORDINANCE ITSELF AND SO
WITHOUT THAT FOR ME I'M WILLING
TO SUPPORT THIS AMENDMENT
BECAUSE I DO THINK THAT WE
EITHER HAVE THE ORDINANCE
LAYING OUT EXACTLY WHEN AND HOW
THE INCREASES WOULD BE MADE IN
ACCORDANCE WITH INFLATION OR
STAFF WILL JUST NEED TO COME
BACK TO US WHEN THEY FEEL IT'S
NECESSARY TO CATCH UP TO
INFLATION I'M GOING TO HAVE
COUNCIL APPROVE.
SO WITH THAT IF THAT'S CLEAR AS
MUD, I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA I CAN BE
VERY BRIEF BECAUSE COUNCIL
MEMBER HERE SAID MOST OF WHAT I
WAS GOING TO SAY WHICH WHICH IS
SIMPLY I'M I'M GOING TO SUPPORT
THIS TONIGHT.
I THINK THAT THIS IS YOU KNOW,
I WILL SAY THAT I BELIEVE THAT
THE INCREASE IS JUSTIFIED AND
ALSO REFLECTS KIND OF THE
LANGUAGE THAT WAS DIRECTED BY
BY VOTERS WHEN THEY APPROVED
THE CHARTER AMENDMENT TO ALLOW
FOR INFLATION INCREASES.
BUT ULTIMATELY I TO COMFORTABLE
WITH MODIFYING THE ORDINANCE IN
SUCH A WAY THAT WHEN FUTURE
THRESHOLD INCREASES NEED TO BE
MADE THAT THE ADMINISTRATOR AND
STAFF CAN CAN MAKE THAT CASE TO
COUNCIL TO THIS COUNCIL TO
FUTURE COUNCILS TO HAVE THAT
ADJUSTMENT MADE AND IT NOT ONLY
IMPORTANTLY BRINGS TRANSPARENCY
TO THAT PROCESS TO THIS BODY
BUT ALSO TO THE PUBLIC WHEN
IT'S HAPPENING.
>> SO I AM GOING TO SUPPORT
THIS COUNCILOR BRIGS.
YEAH, I'LL ALSO BE SUPPORTING
THE AMENDMENT I THINK THAT I
SUPPORT THE INCREASE THIS
EVENING.
I DO THINK THAT THIS COMING TO
COUNCIL SERVES AN IMPORTANT
EDUCATIONAL PURPOSE BOTH FOR
OURSELVES AND FOR THE PUBLIC.
AND SO IT'S A GOOD I DO RECALL
SINCE I WAS ON COUNCIL AT THE
LAST TIME WE DID THAT IN THE
DISCUSSION AND MY RATIONALE
THAT I STRUGGLED WITH THE
INCREASE AT THAT POINT IN TIME.
BUT I THINK THAT IT'S IT'S AN
IMPORTANT PROCESS FOR US TO GO
THROUGH THIS COUNCIL EVEN IF IT
HAPPENS TO BE ON AN ANNUAL
BASIS.
HOPEFULLY IT'LL LOOK GO QUICKLY
AS NECESSARY FOR THE DISCUSSION
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER HERSON
COUNCIL MEMBER.
YES, THIS IS ON THE AMENDMENT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON YES.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA YES.
COUNCIL ADVOCACY EDWYN ABSENT
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER IGHER YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL YES.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER DESH YES.
>> MOTION CARRIES FURTHER
DISCUSSION THE MAIN MOTION AS
AMENDED AURIER THANK YOU.
>> OK I WANT TO ADDRESS THE
THIRD PART OF THE CHANGES
PROPOSED HERE THE CHANGES THAT
RELATE TO BEST VALUE.
SO THIS IS COMING TO US BECAUSE
THE CITY HAS BEEN CONTEMPLATING
A PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP
WHICH COMPLICATES THE USE
OF BEST VALUE FOR A NUMBER
OF REASONS AND MAKES QUITE
DIFFICULT IF NOT IMPOSSIBLE FOR
THE CITY TO IMPOSE ITS BEST
VALUE PROCUREMENT POLICY ON A
PRIVATE ENTITY SORT OF WITHOUT
QUESTION.
>> THAT SAID, WHAT WE ARE DOING
HERE IS TAKING THAT SORT
OF LEGAL SITUATION INTO ACCOUNT
AND CREATING A PROCESS BY WHICH
THE CITY CAN WORK WITH THE
PRIVATE ENTITY TO ENSURE THAT
THE VALUES THE PRIORITIES
BEHIND BEST VALUE ARE FOLLOWED
BY THAT PRIVATE ENTITY WHEN
HIRING THEIR CONTRACTORS.
>> AND SO I ACTUALLY HAVE AN
AMENDMENT THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
PROPOSE THAT MAKES THAT PURPOSE
EVEN MORE CLEAR THAN IT EVEN
SAYS RIGHT NOW SO THAT THAT
COULD BE SENT AROUND.
>> BUT I'LL JUST READ IT TO YOU
SO IT WOULD READ THE CITY
COUNCIL MUST DETERMINE THAT THE
CONTRACT PROVIDES THE BEST
VALUE TO THE CITY AND THEN WE
WOULD BE INSERTING IN A MANNER
THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
VALUES EXPRESSED IN THE
CRITERIA SET FORTH ABOVE IN
SECTION YOU KNOW, AND THEN IT
LISTS THE SECTION OF THE CITY
CODE THAT WE WHERE WE ENUMERATE
WHAT DOES BEST VALUE MEANS AND
THAT THE PROPOSED PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS AND THEN GOES ON
TO TALK ABOUT COMPETITIVE
BIDDING.
IS THERE A SECOND DENHA MARIAH
THANK YOU.
SO YEAH I THINK THIS THIS
ENSURES THAT YOU KNOW, COUNCIL
MUST MAKE SURE THAT THE
CONTRACTS ARE CONSISTENT WITH
BEST VALUE PROCUREMENT POLICY
ALSO YOU KNOW, FOLLOWING THE
LETTER OF THE LAW AND AND
MAKING SURE THAT WE THAT WE'RE
WORKING WITH OUR PARTNERS IN
THE RIGHT MANNER.
COUNCILOR BRIX, MY COMMENT WAS
THAT THE AMENDMENT OH MY
APOLOGIES.
>> YEAH.
SORRY FOR THE DISCUSSION.
THE AMENDMENT WILL FAVOR
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS PROVED
COUNCILOR BRIGGS ON THE MAIN
MOTION AS AMENDED.
>> THANK YOU.
AND I JUST WANTED TO ARTICULATE
FOR THE PUBLIC SINCE I
MENTIONED IN MY NEWSLETTER
THERE I HAD STRUGGLED A BIT
WITH THE LAST SECTION THIS THE
SECTION THAT WE JUST AMENDED IN
TERMS OF WHAT THE IMPLICATIONS
WOULD BE FOR ONE OUR COMMITMENT
TO THE BEST VALUE POLICY BUT
ALSO KIND OF HOW THAT MIGHT
PLAY OUT HERE AT THE TABLE IF
WE AND ACTUALLY THE MOST RECENT
HELP TO TO CLARIFY THAT A
LITTLE BIT IN TERMS
OF ARTICULATING THAT WE ARE NOT
GOING TO BE COMING UP WITH NEW
DEFINITIONS OF WHAT BEST VALUE
MEANS THAT THE COUNCIL TABLE
WHEN THESE SITUATIONS COME
ABOUT AND THAT THERE IS I WAS
ALSO CONCERNED PERHAPS THAT
THIS WAS AN ISOLATED REASON
THAT WE WERE SHIFTING OUR
ORDINANCE AND I THINK THAT
THERE IS BROAD APPLICABILITY
ABOUT THIS.
BUT I WANTED TO SINCE OUR
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE HAS HELPED TO
CLARIFY THIS FOR ME, I JUST
ALSO WANTED TO ASK THE QUESTION
IF YOU WOULDN'T MIND OF KIND
OF WHY BROADLY THIS IS NEEDED
AND SORT OF YOU KNOW WHAT THE
FUTURE IMPLICATIONS MIGHT BE.
>> THANK YOU.
AS THE CITY EVOLVES AND WE DO
BIGGER PROJECTS WITH OUR
PRIVATE ENTITY PARTNERS, WE
HAVE TO TAKE A LOOK AT
ORDINANCES AND SEE IF THEY ARE
TOO RESTRICTIVE.
AND IN THIS CASE IT WAS A
LITTLE RESTRICTIVE BECAUSE BEST
VALUE PROCUREMENT APPLIES TO
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS,
IMPROVEMENTS THAT THE CITY
WOULD BE PAYING FOR AND DOING
SOMETIMES A NEW WORK WITH THIRD
PARTY PRIVATE PARTNERS.
THEY ARE THE ONES INITIALLY
DOING THE IMPROVEMENT AND THEN
THE CITY COMPENSATES THEM AFTER
THE FACT.
SO A TECHNICAL READING WOULD
SAY BEST VALUE PROCUREMENT IS
OR IS NOT APPLICABLE.
YOU CAN ARGUE IT EITHER WAY
BECAUSE THE CONSTRUCTION UP
FRONT IS BEING DONE BY THE
PRIVATE ENTITY.
WE INTERPRET THE ORDINANCE TO
SAY THAT IT IS STILL
APPLICABLE, IT WOULD ALWAYS BE
APPLICABLE BUT TO ASSURE THAT
IT'S APPLICABLE WE THINK IT'S
BEST PUT IN THE CONTRACT WITH
THE THIRD PARTY SO THAT IT IS
SOLIDIFIED AND CONTRACT.
SO THIS PROVISION SIMPLY SAYS
THAT WILL CREATE AN EXCEPTION
WHERE WE CAN NOW ADDRESS BEST
VALUE PROCUREMENT IN THE
CONTRACT WITH THE ENTITY AND
WITH THE AMENDMENT JUST
INTRODUCED BY COUNCIL ER IT
WILL NOW FOLLOW THOSE SAME
PRINCIPLES LAID OUT IN THE
SECTION ABOVE.
SO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN THE
FUTURE IS WHEN YOU'RE WORKING
ON A PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP
YOU WILL ASK COUNSEL OR FUTURE
COUNCIL TO GET A CONTRACT TO
EVALUATE AND YOU WILL EVALUATE
WITHIN IT WHETHER THAT PARTNER
IS PROVIDING THE BEST VALUE
PROCUREMENT PRACTICES AND THEN
EVALUATE THE CONTRACT
ACCORDINGLY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THE
DISCUSSION OR FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED C THREE IN ORDER
TO BEND CHAPTER FOURTEEN
PURCHASING CONTRACTING SELLING
PROCEDURE TITLE ONE OF THE
CODE OF THIS AGREEMENT DO WE
JUST DO THAT.
WE JUST DID THAT.
IT WAS JUST SUCH AN IMPORTANT
AMENDMENT.
LET'S DO IT TWICE C FOR AN
ORDINANCE TO ADD CHAPTER NINETY
FIVE TEMPORARY REDUCTION
OF DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
BETWEEN K-12 SCHOOLS, MARIJUANA
FACILITIES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
TO TITLE SEVEN BUSINESSES AND
TRADES OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
EVEN ARE REMOVED BY COUNCILMAN
CORNELL SECONDED BY KEMPLER OUR
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C FOR
COUNCIL MCCRINDLE NOT JUST AS A
REMINDER OF THIS COMING BEFORE
US PREVIOUSLY THERE ARE
CURRENTLY TWO DIFFERENT
MARIJUANA FACILITIES THAT ARE
OPERATING WITHIN OUTSIDE OF OUR
OWN ORDINANCE OUTSIDE OF THE
DISTANCE
WOULD BE REQUIRED FOR
BEING NEAR A K THROUGH 12
SCHOOL.
NEITHER ONE OF THOSE PROPERTIES
HAVE EVER HAD ANY COMPLAINTS
EITHER BY THE SCHOOL OR BY OUR
PUBLIC SAFETY AND BASICALLY
WHAT THIS ALLOWS IS FOR THESE
TWO SCHOOLS OR THESE TWO
DISPENSARIES ALONG WITH ONE WAR
THAT WAS DISCOVERED THROUGH THE
PROCESS OF DOING DUE DILIGENCE
TO BRING THIS TO PLANNING
COMMISSION WHICH IS WHERE IT
WILL GO NEXT FOR THESE THREE
BUSINESSES TO CONTINUE TO
OPERATE AND TO OBTAIN LICENSES
AND MAINTAIN THEIR LICENSES.
SO WE'RE BASICALLY KEEPING THEM
IN BUSINESS WHILE PLANNING
COMMISSION DETERMINES OUR NEXT
STEPS AND COMES BACK BACK TO US
AT COUNSEL FOR WITH THE
RECOMMENDATION AND A PLAN
FORWARD FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> WELL, FAVORITE POSE IT IS
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
POINT KALEEN GETS TO THE PUBLIC
MARKET ADVISORY COMMISSION AS A
NON REGISTERED ELECTOR MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER MALLIK
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE ON
FAVOR OR OPPOSE WITH COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT OF ALL VONNE
THE AFFIRMATIVE THE SATISFYING
THE SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC
TWO RESOLUTION TO CORRECT THE
APPOINTMENT OF JULIE LYNCH THE
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES IN A ONE STEP
APPOINTMENT BY COUNCIL MEMBER
FOR DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL
REDISH DISCUSSION PLEASE DC TO
ALL FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED.
TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ARE
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC THREE RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE CHANGE ORDER NUMBER
ONE THE CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT
WITH MICHIGAN RECREATIONAL
CONSTRUCTION INC FOR PHASE ONE
B OF BICENTENNIAL PARK SPLASH
PAD AND PLAYGROUND IMPROVEMENTS
PROJECT AND APPROPRIATE FUNDING
FOUR HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED TWENTY
ONE DOLLAR INCREASE FOR A TOTAL
OF ONE MILLION SIX HUNDRED
NINETY SIX THOUSAND 243 DOLLARS
TOTAL CONTRACT BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE.
>> A DC THREE SPAFFORD ON FAVOR
OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED WITH TEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC FOR RESOLUTION
AFFIRMING THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
SUPPORT FOR THE TREE LINE TRAIL
PROJECT MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC FOR COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
.
THANKS I'D LIKE TO ACKNOWLEDGE
SOME OF THE PUBLIC COMMENT THAT
WE'VE RECEIVED ON THIS AND IN
SOME OF THE CONVERSATIONS THAT
I'VE HAD WITH COLLEAGUES I AM
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS AMENDMENT
TONIGHT.
I THINK IT IS IMPORTANT TO
SUPPORT WE'VE GOT A CONSERVANCY
THAT'S WORKING TO DO PRIVATE
FUNDRAISING TO CREATE THE THE
DRILLING TRAIL THROUGHOUT OUR
COMMUNITY.
THIS SIMPLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT
WE WE GENERALLY SUPPORT THIS
THIS PROJECT.
THERE ARE, YOU KNOW, DRAFT
PLANS.
THIS IS NOT APPROVING ANY SORT
OF DESIGN AT THIS MOMENT IN
TIME AND IT SIMPLY JUST
ACKNOWLEDGES IS THIS NONPROFIT
IS GOING OUT THAT THERE IS
SUPPORT FROM THE CITY TO DO
THIS TO DO FUNDRAISING ON THIS
WORK?
I THINK WE'VE HEARD COMMENTS
AROUND WHETHER OR NOT THE
CURRENT DESIGN IN THE NORTH AND
REALLY MEETS OUR COMMUNITIES
NEEDS AND I DO THINK THAT THE
CONSERVANCY WOULD BE WISE TO TO
ENGAGE IN MORE PUBLIC INPUT ON
US AND ENGAGEMENT BECAUSE I
THINK THAT THERE IS OPPORTUNITY
FOR IMPROVEMENT HERE.
HOWEVER, I ALSO THINK THAT
THERE'S A LOT OF DIVERSITY
OF OPINION AROUND WHAT
ANOMALOCARIS FACILITIES LOOK
LIKE AND I LOOK FORWARD TO A
FUTURE THAT HAS MULTIPLE
EXCITING ROUTES TO TRANSPORT
OURSELVES AROUND THE TOWN ON
BIKE AND FOOT AND OTHER NON
MOTORIZED MEANS.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK WE WILL WE
WILL GET THERE BUT IT'S GOING
TO BE I DON'T WANT TO AND I
WANT TO PUT BLOCKADES IN THE
WAY OF A NONPROFIT WORKING TO
TO RAISE FUNDING FOR AN
IMPORTANT MONITORING FACILITY
IN OUR COMMUNITY FOR THE
DISCUSSION
IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IS APPROVED DC FIVE RESOLUTION
TO REVISE 2025 COUNTY COUNCIL
CALENDAR MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION OF DC
FIVE ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY.
YES MAYOR TAYLOR I WOULD LIKE
TO REQUEST A CLOSED SESSION
UNDER MCO FIFTEEN POINT TWO SIX
EIGHT SECTION EIGHT ONE EIGHT
TO CONSIDER PRIVILEGE AND
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO PROVIDED TO
COUNCIL ON SEPTEMBER 10TH 2025
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO GO
INTO CLOSED SESSION ON THAT
BASIS MOVE BY COUNCILOR
ACKERMAN.
>> SECONDLY, COUNCILOR CONNELL
DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL VOTE
PLEASE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON YES.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER MALIK YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER ROB DENHA YEAH I
FORGOT TO ADD ONE ABSENT MAYOR
TAYLOR YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER IA YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES MOTION
CARRIES WE'RE IN CLOSED SESSION
OPENS
FOR OPPOSED THE CLERK'S
REPORT IS APPROVED.
DO YOU HAVE THE PLEASURE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FOR HER
CITY ATTORNEY?
NO THANK YOU MAYOR.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW MAY HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILOR BALIK 2ND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OPPOSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED